Now there is one extra thing when building mobile apps for modern phones we can kind of see this here
on the iPhone which I rotated it has this notch here.
Right.
And this notch can sometimes overlap your content.
The same is true for this home screen Task Manager indicator bar here at the bottom on the iPhone.
You see it's overlapping our new game button and yes I can scroll up but it bounces back and it always
is above that button.
So these are elements which are part of the wise which kind of can distort our interface.
For example if we had left aligned text it might be overlapped by this notch or in this case it is home
screen button where it is.
Well task manager is which are indicator bar is overlapping our content.
And of course that's not just the case on iPhones.
You could have a similar issue on Android devices.
There you also have devices with a notch or with anything like that.
Now to make sure that your app always looks good on all different devices React Native has a special
component you can use a component which automatically adjusts your your content to fit onto the screen
of your device and respect notches and other things.
So for example here in the game over screen where I have this issue here on the iPhone we can import
this special component React Native offers and that's the safe area view.
It's called like this because it's a wrapping view we can put around our content which is marking the
safe area the area in which we can position our content because there we won't have problems with notches
and so on.
Now how do you use to save area of.
You simply take it and wrap it around your content.
So around our scroll view here for example we can wrap all of that on the game over screen with the
safe area view and that's important by the way.
Safe Area views should always wrap your topmost view.
So in this case this scroll view here so now is that safe.
If we go back and we go through our game real quick here on the iPhone start a new game fifty five is
the number and solve this
then what you see is something interesting the issue got even worse.
Well before we take care about this please note that these scroll bar you see here on the right is now
actually indented a bit.
It's not totally on the right and that already is d safe area view having some effect that add some
padding on the left and the right to make sure that well that we respect the de notch that would take
up some space there and give us some padding that our content is definitely not overlapped by the notch.
But of course we have a problem down there at the bottom.
Reason for that is that I'm not really using the save area view as my top most view.
So let's remove it from there from the game over screen because what is our top view.
Well that's in the app chess file in the end there.
We have our content this view here where we have to header and then whichever viewer loading.
So for example the header is not part of his save area view and it definitely should be.
So let's import Safe Area view here in the app jazz file and let's wrap this view here with it like
that
so now with this let's save it and let's have a number look with the wait for the app to reload and
what we see is an empty screen now solution is simple.
Let's take the style we applied to this you and apply to the Save area of you and now get rid of this
other view.
Because now it just replaces our normal view here and now does works and now let's go for that game
again let's quickly solve this
what you now see is dead here at the bottom.
We now have some extra spacing between that.
I want to go to the task manager bar here and the new game button which we didn't have before.
We also have the spacing on the left and the right here to respect the notch so that this never overlaps
content.
We might have on the left there and we've got some extra padding at well the top and the bottom.
Now of course our header doesn't look super beautiful with this extra spacing here and that's actually
something we'll take care about in the navigation module or actually we'll be taken care about for us.
We will not have to do much there but again this is not something we have to worry about.
Therefore what we can worry about though is that our content is always visible and with the safe area
of you you can ensure that it is.
Now that does not mean that you need to wrap all your content or your entire app in a safe area view
all the time as you will see in the next module when we all to talk about navigation in a lot of apps
you'll actually use a library that takes care about this in a lot of cases for you the navigation library
will use there.
So in a lot of apps because most of your apps will have navigation you will not have to manage just
manually.
But if you're building an app where you have no other library that's taking care about this like this
app here you mind when I consider wrapping your content with a save area view if otherwise content is
overlapped.